Thank you, Lester. Our jobs are fleeing the country. They’re going to Mexico, they’re going to many other countries. You look at what China is doing to our country in terms of making our product, they’re devaluing their currency, and there’s nobody in our government to fight them, and we have a very good fight and we have a winning fight because they’re using our country as a piggy bank to rebuild China and many other countries are doing the same thing, so we’re losing our good jobs, so many of them.
When you look at what’s happening in Mexico, a friend of mine who builds plants said it’s the eighth wonder of the world. They’re building some of the biggest plants anywhere in the world, some of the most sophisticated, some of the best plants. With the United States, as he said, not so much.
So Ford is leaving. You see that, their small car division leaving, thousands of jobs leaving Michigan, leaving Ohio. They’re all leaving, and we can’t allow it to happen anymore.
As far as child care is concerned and so many other things, I think Hillary and I agree on that. We probably disagree a little bit as to numbers and amounts and what we’re going to do, but perhaps we’ll be talking about that later, but we have to stop our jobs from being stolen from us. We have to stop our companies from leaving the United States and with it firing all of their people. All you have to do is take a look at Carrier Air Conditioning in Indianapolis. They fired 1,400 people. They’re going to Mexico. So many hundreds and hundreds of companies are doing this. We cannot let it happen.
Under my plan, I’ll be reducing taxes tremendously from 35 percent to 15 percent for companies, small and big businesses. That’s going to be a job creator like we haven’t seen since Ronald Reagan. It’s going to be a beautiful thing to watch. Companies will come. They will build. They will expand. New companies will start, and I look very, very much forward to doing it. We have to renegotiate our trade deals and we have to stop these countries from stealing our companies and our jobs.
Well, for one thing, and before we start on that, my father gave me a very small loan in 1975, and I built it into a company that’s worth many, many billions of dollars with some of the greatest assets in the world, and I say that only because that’s the kind of thinking that our country needs. Our country’s in deep trouble. We don’t know what we’re doing when it comes to devaluations and all of these countries all over the world, especially China, they’re the best, the best ever at it. What they’re doing to us is a very, very sad thing, so we have to do that. We have to renegotiate our trade deals.
And Lester, they’re taking our jobs. They’re giving incentives. They’re doing things that, frankly, we don’t do.
Let me give you an example of Mexico. They have a VAT tax. We’re in a different system. When we sell into Mexico, there’s a tax. When they sell – an automatic 16 percent approximately. When they sell into us, there’s no tax. It’s a defective agreement. It’s been defective for a long time, many years, but the politicians haven’t done anything about it.
Now in all fairness to Secretary Clinton, yes, is that okay? Good. I want you to be very happy. It’s very important to me. But in all fairness to Secretary Clinton, when she started talking about this, it was really very recently. She’s been doing this for 30 years. And why hasn’t she made the agreements better? The NAFTA agreement is defective just because of the tax and many other reasons, but just because of the tax.
Secretary Clinton and others, politicians, should have been doing this for years, not right now because of the fact that we’ve created a movement. They should have been doing this for years. What’s happened to our jobs and our country and our economy generally is, look, we owe $20 trillion. We cannot do it any longer, Lester.
Well, the first thing you do is don’t let the jobs leave. The companies are leaving. I could name – I mean there are thousands of them. They’re leaving, and they’re leaving in bigger numbers than ever. And what you do is you say,
“Fine, you want to go to Mexico or some other country, good luck. We wish you a lot of luck, but if you think you’re going to make your air conditioners or your cars or your cookies or whatever you make and bring them into our country without a tax, you’re wrong.” And once you say you’re going to have to tax them coming in—and our politicians never do this because they have special interests and the special interests want those companies to leave because in many cases they own the companies. So what I’m saying is we can stop them from leaving. We have to stop them from leaving, and that’s a big, big factor.
That’s called business, by the way.
She talks about solar panels. We invested in a solar company, our country. That was a disaster. They lost plenty of money on that one.
Now look, I’m a great believer in all forms of energy, but we’re putting a lot of people out of work. Our energy policies are a disaster. Our country is losing so much in terms of energy, in terms of paying off our debt. You can’t do what you’re looking to do with 20 trillion in debt.
The Obama Administration, from the time they’ve come in, is over 230 years’ worth of debt, and he’s topped it. He’s doubled it in the course of almost eight years, seven and a half years, to be semi-exact.
So I will tell you this: we have to do a much better job at keeping our jobs, and we have to do a much better job at giving companies incentive to build new companies to expand because they’re not doing it. And all you have to do is look at Michigan and look at Ohio and look at all of these places where so many of their – their jobs and their companies are just leaving. They’re gone.
And Hillary, I just ask you this. You’ve been doing this for 30 years. Why are you just thinking about these solutions right now? For 30 years, you’ve been doing it and now you’re just starting to think of solutions.
I will bring – excuse me. I will bring back jobs. You can’t bring back jobs.
You go to New England, you go to Ohio, Pennsylvania, you go anywhere you want, Secretary Clinton, and you will see devastation where manufacture is down 30, 40, sometimes 50 percent. NAFTA is the worst trade deal maybe ever signed anywhere, but certainly ever signed in this country.
And now, you want to approve Trans-Pacific Partnership. You were totally in favour of it. Then you heard what I was saying, how bad it is, and you said I can’t win that debate, but you know that if you did win, you would approve that, and that will be almost as bad as NAFTA. Nothing will ever top NAFTA.
You called it the gold standard of trade deals.
And then you heard what I said about it, and all of a sudden you were against it.
one of the biggest tax cuts (sic) in history. You are going to approve one of the biggest tax increases in history. You are going to drive business out. Your regulations are a disaster, and you’re going to increase regulations all over the place. And by the way, my tax cut is the biggest since Ronald Reagan. I’m very proud of it. It will create tremendous numbers of news jobs, but regulations, you are going to regulate these businesses out of existence. When I go around, Lester, I tell you this. I’ve been all over, and when I go around, despite the tax cut, the things that businesses and people like the most is the fact that I’m cutting regulation. You have regulations on top of regulations and new companies cannot form and old companies are going out of business and you want to increase the regulations and make them even worse. I’m going to cut regulations, but I’m going to cut taxes big league, and you’re going to raise taxes big league, end of story.
and look at her website. You know what? It’s no different than this. She’s telling us how to fight ISIS. Just go to her website. She tells you how to fight ISIS on her website. I don’t think General Douglas MacArthur would like that too much.
See, you’re telling the enemy everything you want to do. No wonder you’ve been fighting – no wonder you’ve been fighting ISIS your entire adult life.
Well, I’m really calling for major jobs, because the wealthy are going to create tremendous jobs. They’re going to expand their companies, they’re going to do a tremendous job. I’m getting rid of the carried interest provision and if you really look, it’s not a tax, it’s really not a great thing for the wealthy, it’s a great thing for middle class. It’s a great thing for companies to expand.
And when these people are going to put billions and billions of dollars into companies, and when they’re going to bring two and a half trillion dollars back from overseas, where they can’t bring the money back because politicians like Secretary Clinton won’t allow them to bring their money because the taxes are so onerous and the bureaucratic red tape, so what – is so bad – so what they’re doing is they’re leaving our country and they’re – believe it or not – leaving because taxes are too high, and because some of them have lots of money outside of our country and instead of bringing it back and putting their money to work because they can’t work out a deal to – and everybody agrees it should be brought back – instead of that, they’re leaving our country to get their money because they can’t bring their money back into our country because of bureaucratic red tape because they can’t get together.
Because we have a, we have a President that can’t sit them around a table and get them to approve something. And here’s the thing: Republicans and Democrats agree that this should be done. Two and half trillion, I happen to think it’s double that. It’s probably five trillion dollars that we can’t bring into our country, Lester, and with a little leadership, you’d get it in here very quickly and it could be put to use on the inner cities and lots of other things and it would be beautiful. But we have no leadership. And honestly, that starts with Secretary Clinton.
Typical politician, all talk, no action. Sounds good, doesn’t work, never going to happen. Our country is suffering because people like Secretary Clinton have made such bad decisions in terms of our jobs and in terms of what’s going on.
Now look, we have the worst revival of an economy since the Great Depression. And believe me, we’re in a bubble right now. And the only thing that looks good is the stock market but if you raise interest rates even a little bit, that’s going to come crashing down. We are in a big fat ugly bubble, and we better be awfully careful. And we have a Fed that’s doing political things. This Janet Yellen of the Fed, the Fed is doing political things by keeping the interest rates at this level and believe me, the day Obama goes off and he leaves and he goes out to the golf course for the rest of his life to play golf, when they raise interest rates, you’re going to see some very bad things happen because the Fed is not doing their job. The Fed is being more political than Secretary Clinton.
I don’t mind releasing. I’m under a routine audit and it’ll be released, and as soon as the audit’s finished, it’ll be released. But you will learn more about Donald Trump by going down to the federal elections where I filed a 104-page essentially financial statement of sorts, the forms that they have. It shows income, in fact, the income – I just looked today – the income is filed at $694 million for this past year; $694 million. If you would have told me I was going to make that 15 or 20 years ago, I would have been very surprised. But that’s the kind of thinking that our country needs. When we have a country that’s doing so badly, that’s being ripped off by every single country in the world, it’s the kind of thinking that our country needs because everybody – Lester, we have a trade deficit with all of the countries that we do business with of almost 800 billion dollars a year.
You know what that is? That means who’s negotiating these trade deals? We have people that are political hacks negotiating our trade deal.
Well, I told you, I will release them as soon as the audit – look, I’ve been under audit almost for 15 years. I know a lot of wealthy that have never been audited. I said do you get audited? I get audited almost every year. And in a way, I should be complaining. I’m not even complaining. I don’t mind it. It’s almost become a way of life. I get audited by the IRS, but other people don’t.
I will say this: we have a situation in this country that has to be taken care of. I will release by tax returns against my lawyers’ wishes, when she releases her 33,000 emails that have been deleted. (laughter) As soon as she releases them, I will release, I will release my tax returns. And that’s against – my lawyers, they say don’t do it. I will tell you this: no, in fact, watching shows, they’re reading the papers, almost every lawyer says you don’t release your returns until the audit’s complete. When the audit’s complete, I’ll do it. But I would go against them if she releases her emails.
It’s not negotiable, no. Let her release the e-, why did she delete 33,000 emails?
That was more than a mistake. That was done purposely, okay? That was not a mistake. That was done purposely. When you have your staff taking the fifth amendment, taking the fifth so they’re not prosecuted, when you have the man that set up the illegal server taking the fifth, I think it’s disgraceful, and believe me, this country thinks it’s, really thinks it’s disgraceful also.
As far as my tax returns, you don’t learn that much from tax returns, that I can tell you. You learn a lot from financial disclosure. And you should go down and take a look at that.
The other thing, I’m extremely under leveraged. The report that said 650, which by the way, a lot of friends of mine that know my business say boy, that’s really not a lot of money. It’s not a lot money relative to what I had. The buildings that were in question, they said in the same report, which was, actually it wasn’t even a bad story, to be honest with you, but the buildings are worth 3.9 billion dollars. And the 650 isn’t even on that. But it’s not 650, it’s much less than that.
But I could give you a list of banks, I would, if that would help you, I would give you a list of banks. These are very fine institutions, very fine banks. I could do that very quickly. I am very under leveraged. I have a great company. I have a tremendous income. And the reason I say that is not in a braggadocious way, it’s because it’s about time that this country had somebody running it that has an idea about money.
When we have 23 trillion dollars in debt and our country’s a mess, you know, it’s one thing to have 20 trillion in debt and our roads are good and our bridges are good and everything’s in great shape. Our airports, our airports are like from a third world country. You land at La Guardia, you land at Kennedy, you land at LAX, you land at Newark, and you come in from Dubai and Qatar, and you see these incredible – you come in from China, you see these incredible airports, and you land, we’ve become a third world country.
So the worst of all things has happened. We owe 20 trillion dollars and we’re a mess. We haven’t even started. And we’ve spent six trillion dollars in the Middle East, according to a report that I just saw, whether it’s six or five, but it looks like it’s six, six trillion dollars in the Middle East. We could have rebuilt our country twice. And it’s really a shame. And it’s politicians like Secretary Clinton that have caused this problem.
Our country has tremendous problems. We’re a debtor nation, we’re a serious debtor nation and we have a country that needs new roads, new tunnels, new bridges, new airports and schools, new hospitals, and we don’t have the money because it’s been squandered on so many of your ideas.
